You will have to.
You will have to submit your peer review
individually. OK, so this is #1.
This is definitely not a group work.
You will do your review because your
feedback will affect your peers grade OK.
Just be honest. Be objective.
And be constructive.
So I want you guys to take 10 to 30
minutes to think about #1 what you have
done and #2 what you want your peers to
do in this study group.
I know there's no study group,
just one single person.
You have to work with.
Your peers.
You have to work with your group members,
right?
So then you think about how you did it.
You think about how the other people did
it.
So there are several criterias and then
there are just.
Basically provide your team members name,
not you the other peers and give them a
rate to think through, right?
So then be fair.
Pick objective.
I will highly recommend you guys to have
internal group meeting.
Share your feedback with your group
Members what you think.
They have been doing great.
What you think they have been doing?
Not so great.
And what you guys can change as a team
together?
I understand there's a lot of
difficulties, right?
So then you're taking so many classes and
and and and this class is not easy.
I understand that.
So then how do you want to make this
group works? Homework so efficient, right?
So not necessary like you have to rush to
submit something.
So just matter,
how do you guys gonna manage time?
Share your opinion with your peers and
give some constructive feedback to to
your to your peers.
And also set some expectations for your
final so final projects.
My experience OK.
So when I was taking similar class,
machine learning or similar class back to
my Business School,
the final project's definitely gonna take
a ton of time.
So.
It's the the reason I don't like as a
student, the final projects is.
It's not like a final exam.
The final exam,
just to review everything on the book.
And then you're from your nose. You know,
you're going to have a pretty good grade,
but final projects is.
Some some folks, some your peers,
going to make it really great and some of
your peers was like, OK,
I have a lot of exams.
So then I have some limitations.
So this is one opportunity that for you
guys going to manage your own project as
as as a project manager.
So so learn how to negotiate.
Learn how to divide the responsibility to
your peers and yourself,
and learn how to make it more efficient
so that you do not have to spend a lot of
time setting up the goals,
setting up the responsibilities or so.
So I I would encourage you guys start
early.
When when I was in my Business School.
So then we submit.
So we we did exactly the same thing.
So how I learn it?
Kind of proposal.
Final project kind of structure.
We didn't have final exam either.
So then we just need to submit a proposal.
Tell the professor what we to do need to
do and what we found is after one week or
two sub meeting the final proposal.
I we we found.
Oh my God, we just over promised the goal.
It didn't happen to us. So then,
so now we have to change a lot of things
and we contact Professor.
Hey, we we we think this is not doable.
We want to change it.
We want to change the scope and then you
know if you have such requests.
I mean all it's totally open after you
and then we can change it.
But you have to plan early.
The reason we changed our scope is we
found that the data is extremely hard.
To acquire and even though we have,
we have some data from somewhere from we
contacted other universities and they
gave us the data.
It just you have to spend too much time
to engineer the data.
It is.
This is not is not even close to to to to
usable so.
So that's that's why.
So then you, you,
you you want to start already,
not definitely don't do it until the last
week.
You you wouldn't have time and and then
you'll need someone to have the
preparation.
You know, starting from now.
So you have the skeleton of your final
presentation while you are developing and
developing your tool,
developing your product so you can add
more content to that skeleton.
That presentation now be much much easier.
Then you have one person or two to finish
up that presentation on day -1 OK.
And then this is one opportunity you
share your opinion and then this is one
opportunity you can manage your group
better in a better way.
You can manage your final project to have
a great experience in the end. OK.
So I don't think you know if you have
only team of three.
So then you just need to provide the
feedback for the other team.
You it won't take you more than 5 minutes
to finish this,
but you have to do it right.
Think through what you have done.
What the other people have done and make
your group better and make your group
more efficient and and you guys can work
together.
Towards the the final final project, OK.
Any any question around this and this
peer review?
OK.
No questions, right?
So then it's actually open in the what's
the name?
D2L now.
What we are going to do today?
So we have the first thing is we have
talked about all the tree models, right?
So now I want to give you one example.
Going through all the tree models you can
see the result of this example.
I think this is pretty good exercise to
do, right?
So then we're gonna go deep,
dive into the data.
So then you eventually gonna use a tree
model for for for your project at work,
and then for for for your homework.
So so we can just go through everything
about tree models.
We gonna close tree models,
and then we gonna cover the time series
models today and ssvm models today.
So then I know till next week is a spring
break.
So then we do not have any class tomorrow
next week.
So that I hope I can cover all the models.
Before neural network before spring break.
So then after spring break,
we'll be talking about neural networks
and the large language models.
So if you so then I just want you to
finish those conventional machine
learning models before spring break.
After that,
you know neural network is definitely
going to be more advanced models,
and then it's it's going to be if you see
that for three models,
we can actually see the model code and go
see the model for neural networks you you
wouldn't be able to do.
That it's it's it's a black box.
And then whenever you have to build those
black box from scratch and then you have
to learn how the piece is going to work
together.
So it would definitely be more fun,
but definitely more challenging,
more more, more math involved.
But hopefully we're going to go through
that.
And then you gonna you gonna you gonna
see a lot of a new model.
Of course they're happening recently,
right for the for those of tree models,
at least you have like 10 years of a
history.
Ten years of a history for some of them.
Your network models.
You do not do not have that history, OK.
Let's just talk about all of the tree
models.
So as as you can see I'm I'm using the
regression model as example, right?
So then from here you can see I'm loading,
so I'm importing so many libraries.
Let me just just talk through what those
libraries are.
So then pandas and this is really like
the data frame library we're using, right?
As you can see.
And this this map file.
So this is a library that you just,
you know,
just plot this pictures and then we use
it.
And then Numpy is already a a library
dealing with a list of numbers and a
seaborn.
Is A is a Utd library basically.
And and I'm really loading a lot of
regression models.
So I I loaded the linear regression model,
so I also loaded the KN model.
I loaded a simple decision tree model and
then here is a random forest regression.
So this is this is the model using random
forest and then I loaded a gradient
boosting model.
I I loaded a utility function called
create search.
And and also I'm so as you can see all
different models are from and also I I I
loaded aster boosting model from S3 boost
and also there are some utility functions
for example like the train test speed.
Oh,
I don't think I just need to do this
again.
And then and then I loaded some function
to calculate MSR MSE or or maybe the mean
absolute percentage errors?
So those are the metrics that you're
going to quantify the prediction and
versus versus actual.
So going to give you how big the error is,
right?
And also I'm loading this Utd function or
Utd.
This Utd function is basically encoder
and I'll tell you what encoder is and
another utility function.
Calendar is basically counting of that
different iterations and and of course
map math functions so.
So now I'm just basically loading all the
functions from different libraries.
As you can see,
last week we talked about a lot of
mathematics,
a lot of background of how those models
have been developed or coded,
but in real life,
when you are actually using those models
it.
Just simple lines of code.
We we talk, you know,
one hour about the gradient boosting,
but here you just simple like one line of
code.
You know that the developers,
the Python developers,
already have those mathematics
implemented behind scenes.
So then you do not have to do that, right?
So you can just call the function and use
it which is which is, which is awesome.
In the early days you may have to call it
yourself,
but now you don't the data set I'm using
to demonstrate is the use the cars.
The data set we have seen.
Before, right?
So this data set has different.
Different information. For example,
you definitely have the brand information
telling us if that user card is a Ford
car is a Hyundai car, is a Lexus car,
and what kind of model.
And then this board car is utility.
Interceptor base is equal another one.
Infinity is a hybrid sport.
And also the data also tells us the model
year.
The first one is 2013 and the few time
some of the gasoline car and some of the
Hybruary car and those are some
description about the engine.
And the transmission external color and
the internal color.
And also whether or not a car has any
accident,
as because the first Ford car already
like for for police officers at least one
accident reported, that's understandable.
Some of them do not have any report
reported accident and whether or not that
car has a clean title and then also we do
have the price of those used cars, right?
So now we are.
We're seeing we're seeing different
features.
So the model year is definitely treated
as an integer, and all the other.
Piece of information.
They're considered as object,
meaning those are characteristics even
for the price, and also the mileage.
So the first thing as we you know the
same thing we did last time is because of
this dollar sign in this price column.
I just want to gather it up,
this dollar sign and convert this price
to a number.
So that's exactly what I did here.
So I got rid of that dollar sign from
that column and it converted to a float.
A float is.
A number.
And then it allows you know different
sends.
So it's definitely not a whole dollar
number.
So then,
so then I just converted to a float and
also I I I got rid of those miles unit in
this mileage.
Column so then I also converted to a
float to a float,
float for to to these numbers.
That's basically what I did in those two
rows,
2 lines of code right after I did that.
I just create a mileage number and a
price number,
so I just dropped the original mileage
and price columns right so then.
And and also I got rid of some anomalies.
So then I just keep those.
Price within $300,
000 and then also the mileage less than
250,000.
Miles and also I I made the assumption
that the price and the mileage has to be
bigger than 0.
So then I I don't pay my customer for
them to quote unco buy my cars.
So then that's why.
So then get rid of those anomalies.
So I'm only losing less than 50 records.
So before I have a two 4009.
Cars.
Now I have 3966 cars as my training data.
So then this is the data gonna look like.
So then I have a price as a number and a
mileage as a number.
All the other,
all the others are are really.
Characteristics strings.
So then,
so then I just plot this chart so the X
axis is a mileage and the Y axis is the
price.
So then we can see.
There is no linear relationship between
the mileage and enterprise as you.
You can see this.
Certainly,
the more mileage you put on a car,
the last price in the car will be right.
So then, so then the the price the, the,
the,
the price declines as the the mileage
increases?
That's for sure.
But you do have for for for a simple,
for the same mileage,
you have a lease up prize over there.
So then they should be explained by the
other information saying brand say
different engine say different
transmission.
So this is basically how how you gonna
visualize the data and how the mileage
enterprise gonna look like.
And then you can definitely plot this
chart between other information.
The reason I plot is between mileage and
price.
Just you know,
because there's only two columns are.
Numerical. The other are sort of.
List of strings right?
So we will do.
A stab called feature engineering.
So I will.
I will tell you what how I did it and
I'll show you why the feature engineering
is so powerful in the end.
OK.
So for example.
This accident, right?
So that I'm basically checking.
How many different why use in that
accident column?
So then what I found is there are only
three values in the accident column,
three unique values. Let me just.
Rerun it OK.
Show you what those three unique values
are.
So those values are really at least one
accident or damage reported non reported
or non reported.
So basically those are the three values
and if you check brand how many different
brands we're talking about in this data
set, we see 56 and what are they?
You can clearly see those are the major
brand and we have seen in the US market,
right?
So then, not so many.
And then also you can check how many
different external colors we have.
SO3312.
And then you can see what those colors
are.
I didn't change it.
So those are the colors.
So I still consider all of 4000 Colors
three 312 external colors.
It is not too many,
so this is the way how I engineer the
features.
So then I'm using this encoder function.
So I converted those.
Different characteristic values into
numbers.
So so after I do this.
You can see that.
My accident encoded is not going to be.
You know more than one accident reported.
It's going to be like zero and one,
and then also my my external color gonna
be a different numbers,
some numbers assigned to those to those
different colors.
So that's how I manage to have.
Those column encoded.
So basically I'm converting those.
Characteristic or categorical values into
numbers OK.
But some of those column,
for example transmission umm if you check
the transmission column.
OK, it's not too bad.
But if you take look if you.
If you take a look at this transmission
column,
you can actually see there are some
common patterns, right?
So you can see there are some 7 speed Ant.
There's a speed Ant.
There's 10 speed an T or or 9 speeds AAT.
So I I Google it because I'm not.
Really familiar with the car.
So now what does this mean?
It's automatic transmission.
So what?
This really telling you that the seven
speed automatic transmission is also
automatic transmission.
You can certainly see a lot of
information that.
In the same pattern across all different
values of transmission.
So this is what I did for now.
Transmission column.
So I found out of 4000 about 4000 rows.
This A and T showed up 2417 times.
These 6 speed.
Showed up 694 times and those are these
automatic shows of a 688 times and eight
speed and transmission and withdual and
shift in mode and.
M-T and seven speed.
So definitely you can see there are a lot
of high frequent word showing up across
different values of transmission.
So instead I'm just encode this entire
transmission column.
I decide.
The muscles.
Yeah, yeah, go ahead. Any question?
So this code you have for the word count
is it case sensitive or does it?
Would it would if I have one thing in a
capital M and a one or and a let's say
model.
I have model the word model.
There one one's in a capital M and one's
in a lower M.
Would it show it twice,
or would it just show model as as one?
Yeah, you see this lower function.
This lower function will convert
everything into lowercase.
All right.
Thank you.
Yeah. So as you can see,
I have a AA-T here.
So that is, I don't see that.
So I only see this so then I convert
everything and the 6 speed.
If you can see there is 6 speed like this.
So this lower function will convert
everything to a lowercase.
There's no capital letters.
Hopefully I don't see that there's no
capital letters in there.
So then that's how I counted it.
So it's a legit question.
Say I have a 6 speed in capital case and
there are 6 speed in lower case,
but they'd you know,
consider those are different cases.
You,
you I will highly recommend you guys to
lower either you know no to be to make
them pace insensitive.
I mean this data in,
in my opinion isn't bad.
I have seen in my previous work.
You know I'm working with different
companies, right?
So then just a A real story.
A real story. I I I work for AUS company,
headquartered in us.
I'm not going to tell you what our
company is,
what I'm going to tell you in their very.
Sales data.
I have seen.
16 versions of United States.
I have seen us.
I've seen Usai have seen United States.
I have seen United State,
I have seen United States, so there's.
There's there's so many different,
very creative way of spelling United
States in their data.
So at least this lower function can get
rid of, you know,
the higher you know sensitive case kind
of issue.
Yeah.
So then in in this way you can extract.
I extract the most common 20 words and
you do not have to do 20.
You can do 10.
You can do more than 20.
The reason I see 20 is.
You know, in the end it's automatics.
There's only 12 frequency and technique.
I don't have to do 20.
I can do 10.
That's good enough and and and and is
this extraction the best way?
Of course not.
I can tell you now it is not the best way.
The reason is you know I Google it and
this at means automatic transmission.
And I see automatic here.
In the best case scenario,
this automatic and this should be
combined.
Right. And also this transmission here?
Hey I'm extracting information from this
transmission column.
Of course I should see transmission as a
word here.
And then why do I even use transmission
as a feature as a keyword extracted from
this very transmission column?
That's a very valid question.
And and what I see in here.
Is also another automatic.
It's a menu.
I'm pretty sure this Mt means manual
transmission, right?
And I I also see with I mean this with
sounds feels like it's a fader word.
So this is definitely not the best way.
Is far from a pass away to extract
information from this transmission column.
I acknowledge that,
but I could show you that even this.
This way of extracting information from
all the data you have gonna provide you a
powerful information in your model.
So the point is,
isn't far from being perfect,
but still very valuable for a model. OK,
and and you have a big enough room to
make it even better.
So I extract 20 common words from here.
And I made each word 01 column.
So that's exactly what I did from OK.
So after I do this I can show you the new
data.
How the new data looks like?
So you see,
I have this transmission 10 speed, 0 ones.
There's a transmission 5 speed zero and
ones guess I I I own.
You should let me see this one.
Transformation 5. Speed.
Oh I I got rid of this transmission
column,
so let's let me show you some of them to
make sure that there is definitely some
column.
This this guy is the one.
So the for those cars,
you definitely have transmission 5 speed
equals one.
Right. So then I also tracked this engine.
Let me show you the raw value of the
engine column.
So the engine column has 1126 unique
values.
And some.
A lot of engine's gonna.
Description's gonna look like this.
Some number of horsepower,
a leader of that engine and a version of
that engine.
How many cylinder of that engine and and
whatsoever.
So those kind of information about engine,
you can definitely extract a lot of
information in my opinion.
I'm not a super car guy,
but I can still see that so that I decide
to.
Extract top 30 from this so I can see
engine which is definitely an example to
show you guys.
This is definitely not the best way to
extract the information signal for sure.
Feel and some information I can start
seeing is a gasoline.
And V6 is a different engine kind of
version and then also someone is showing
electric.
Someone's showing 3.0 liters,
so definitely gonna sum columns gonna be
created around this engine.
Let me show you.
After this step.
Right. So then you definitely have,
you definitely have these engines 3.
5 liter, engine, GDI engine turbo.
So those are gonna be information that
you can use to predict.
How good or bad a car is?
Another one is a model.
So let's see what model column has.
This is basically different models, right?
So then I'm trying to extract like
similar information from this,
so I'll do that. Gosh.
On that.
So I've seen their submodel is really
base model,
some of the model we considered a premium
model,
some of the model we consider like spore
model and then some limited model.
So a lot of information can extract from
the model as well the formatting so.
I.
I took some time in this feature
engineering stuff, so #1I encoded those.
Columns with a small number of unique
values and #2 is I extract some
information.
In my opinion gonna be the key
information from transmission from engine
and from model columns.
So I recreate those.
I recreate those.
Column around those information,
so right now.
So how many columns do I have?
So I have 3966 roles and I have 59
columns and a majority of them are just
basically coming from this information
instruction.
So Next up is here is going to be the
total columns I have, right?
So now you can open this text editor.
You can see all the columns I have so.
These are definitely the columns I
extract from engine.
And those are the columns I extract from
model and those are the columns from the
transmission, right?
So let's see.
So I wanna start with just price.
So this is what I'm going to predict.
Let's just start with the mileage.
Right.
So let's just use one feature and that is
the mileage and C and compare different
models.
How different models are are are doing so
I have only one.
Why? That's the price. I have only 1X.
That's the mileage,
and let's see how it goes.
So I will split the entire data set into
a test and train.
Where the train will have 80% of the
entire data and then we're going to build
a different models on the train data set
to predict the price and we will test how
good or bad a model is on the test data
set using the X in the.
Test data set and predict the price of
the those used cars in the test data set
and compare them.
So that's exactly what I'm going to do.
So then I will have 3172 rows to train
the model.
You have a question please.
And you're on me with her one.
Yeah. Oh, sorry.
I had one question about we plan to do a
Yes.
validation include a validation data set.
In our in our final project,
would we include that in the?
Sure.
So for example you have test size 0.2.
Would we also include the validation set .
2 and just train the model on .
Yeah.
6 or 60% of the data?
I I highly recommend you do that.
So you wanna do like a train validation
and test?
That's that's that's that's even better
than this approach.
What we define defined or set the
validation set and when we split the data
set or what we do it later on?
You can do it later on,
so you have the train you.
Then you have the freedom to do you then
even 55 fold validation if you want.
All right, sounds OK.
Yeah, it's really up to you.
Thank you.
Yeah, for sure. For for this.
I didn't do any validation.
I just trained the model on train set and
then test it on test and then whatever
the.
Suggested a good approach.
So then you can do a training and
validation.
Once one step and then the reason I have
this this step is I do see some error
messages if you don't use this step.
It's really like some of the columns.
You may have some NA values.
The null values just I just feel those
null values by using the mean of that
column.
So this is really to prevent any any
error from happening. So now we have.
You have the data training data prepared.
So then let's try different models, right?
So then let's try this.
A linear regression model.
So it's pretty easy.
You just define your model's name and
then call this linear model module and
then you you just say hey,
this LR under score model is a linear
regression model.
And then I will fit.
X is X frame and then and then my Y or Y
train. So I gonna fit this model.
I will predict based upon my.
My input variables in the X task and I
will I will predict.
My used car price this call.
That's my Y under score prediction.
I will compare my prediction.
Versus my test actual price.
So I will calculate mean square error.
So what does it mean?
Square error mean so then I'll have a
prediction. I'll have a actual value.
I'll do.
I'll calculate the difference between
those two values,
say my actual car price is 100.
It is 10,000 and I am predicting.
11,000 so then or 99000.
My difference is either 1000 or a -, 1000,
but I just don't want to say.
I just want when the prediction in
between so that I will trade it,
you know 1000 -, 1000 the same.
So then I'm taking absolute value around
it.
So then,
so the actual value is 10 and I'm
predicting 11.
So then my difference is going to be 1000
in here, right?
So then I have a 10,000.
I'm predicting 11,000.
I have another 20,000.
I'm predating 21,000,
so I'm calculating the average of those.
Mis predicted differences.
So that's how I calculate the mean
absolute error, right?
So then and absolute percentage error is
is is doing the following.
Say I'm my my my used car price is 10,
000 and I'm predicting 11,000.
So I know my difference is only 1000.
I want to convert 1000 into a percentage
value.
So what?
I'm going to do is.
I'm going to divide by 1000 by the actual
value, which is 10,000,
so that I'm telling myself I usually miss
10% of my actuals.
So then MSE is giving you an absolute
difference between your prediction and
your actual price,
and the percentage is going to give you a
percentage difference.
Both of them are quantifying how big the
prediction error is. OK.
So then I'm output.
So then our job using different models is
to minimize the MSE and also minimize the
map.
And then if MSE is lower,
map is automatically lower so that you
can. You can think about this either way.
So we are just going to minimize both of
those metrics.
And then I'm going to plot.
A chart, right?
So then X axis still being the the
mileage and the Y axis in blue gonna be
the actual value,
the Y axis in red gonna be the prediction
value.
I just wanna visualize how big the
difference is between the prediction and
actual values and also I'm outputting the
importance of the features.
Meaning what are the top 10 important
factors that will impact my used car
price?
So that's going to be another output from
this model.
So that's it.
So as you can see this linear regression
model gave us 80%.
Of map right?
So the map being the the error level,
right?
So then let's I just want to have
recording.
Let's do it here.
Using.
Yes, linear regression.
So for linear regression is 80% so
meaning.
If my actual price is $10,000,
my prediction could be as high as 18 or
as low as 2000.
Sounds like as the number also as the
number suggested is a really poor
prediction.
With that expectation,
you can actually see the actual value
versus the prediction value.
It's a line and then a lot of variability
of this price is got ignored.
So that is a really a weakness of this
linear regression model.
So then if you do have some car here and
then this is really high value is totally
going to be ignored by this model.
So that's also suggested by.
That's why you know this,
this percentage error is so high 80%.
And since we have only one feature,
so definitely not mileage,
mileage is going to be really important.
So let's try KNN.
So what I'm doing is I'm calling KNN,
so I'm going to calculate the the
prediction by using 25 neighbors nearby.
I'm going to fit the model and I'm going
to predict and I'm going still going to
output the the MSE map and prediction as
a chart and also top 10 features,
but in this way there's only one feature,
there's only one information.
That's mileage is definitely going to be
very important.
I see as you can see,
this king is doing much better than
linear regression.
So the map is already 58%.
Let me just record it.
It's 58%.
So then this king is definitely better
than linear regression.
It just reduced the error by 22%.
That's that's a huge improvement.
The reason it got improved,
you know this is allow the nonlinearity
here,
at least you do not have one straight
line a lot of points got covered.
So As for visualization,
you can definitely see it is better.
Let's try a regression tree.
This going to be a simple regression tree.
Am I saying a Max that is only is 10?
So I'm not going to build this tree super,
umm, deep,
and then it's basically calling this
decision tree regressor function and the
feed model and predict the model and
output exactly what we've seen.
OK.
So may 60% is similar as the the KNN.
As you can see.
Is 60%, so it is not so great,
but it's definitely better than the
linear regression as you can see.
I can start predicting some of the points.
That for K&
N or linear regression should be
considered as anomalies.
I do have some really high predictions
now.
I mean, from a visualization perspective,
it's better than KN because in K NN
everything just tied to.
This is the exact curve.
But now in in trees I can have somewhat I
use spread it around this plane,
in my opinion is better,
but for from a quantifiable metrics it's
definitely worse, but not too much worse.
So then let's try a random forest.
Still,
I'm calling this a random forest function.
I'm doing similar some random.
Parameters and then I just run this from
outer box parameter.
As you can see from May is 5939.
OK.
It's similar similar level as you know
the KNN Random Forest, 5939, OK,
not so great but and and in my opinion
still were even worse than simple
regression tree.
And from a map I can I can predict my
user car if it were 10,
000 I can predict this 116 or sorry 16 or
or or or just four now.
So great predictions.
Let's do a gradient boost, OK.
So now gradient boost we have 58.
So gradient boost.
We have 58.8.
And that's fine. Actually boost.
You know that from the chart it
definitely looks like a K NN.
But you have like 59.
OK.
So now we have only one input.
That is the mileage.
And then we have all those numbers pretty
much all the models other than linear
regression.
We have a similar accuracy around 5859%.
No one is significantly better than the
other among those five models,
but we can conclude only one thing is all
those five models are better than the
linear regression.
Those sort of things that we can confirm.
So now let's do one more thing.
Let's just start using those.
Encoded encoded features.
So what are those encoded features?
Those. Oh, I think those clear titles,
sorry.
The encoded features.
Remember those encoded features?
Are we do not have so many categories?
So now I'm just assigning a number of
social visit.
That's how I actually encoded them, right?
So then, now we have 123-4567 features.
I encoded whether or not they have
accident.
What kind of brand,
whether or not they have a clinic title?
What kind of different?
Internal external color and different
fuel type 0.
Let's see.
Now we have the usering mileage.
Number and all encoded features.
And let's see how the models the accuracy
or or error rate of the models change,
right?
Together with no numbers.
Is the one that confuse myself.
OK.
Let's rerun this.
So now instead of only seeing one column,
we see seven columns.
Those are the seven features.
We just filled in those those mean values.
Let's retry the linear regression.
So now we we have 7 features or seven
different pieces of information to
predict the used car price and see.
I'll see even for this video regression
we have the error rate dropped from I
forgot 90%. Yeah, 80% to 79. You know it.
Still, 1% gain is good.
And and we can see that from a linear
regression perspective.
It it's definitely a linear line and then
two different features that linear
regression.
Consider that important are accident
encoded in few time encoded.
It is really counterintuitive.
Both yes.
Is that I do feel those are important
features, but compared to this mileage,
I still think mileage is more important.
So then this linear regression result is
counterintu intuitive in my mind,
but let's try KNN. OK,
the K in accuracy now is 58.
So.
Sort of. Even similar accuracy,
we don't have a lot of improvement from
the KNN, but something is following.
My intuition is that the mileage is
definitely good information to have.
Let's try this regression tree.
So now as you can see we we have the new
regression tree beating KN a bit.
Before we are using only one feature.
This is simple tree gave us 60% error
versus can 58 but now it's 55.
Now it's definitely 3% better than KNN.
Now the big margin,
but definitely getting better.
Random forest.
So run the forest. As you can see,
we have more improvement on top of this
simple regression tree.
So now we have 52.
Remember, we have only one feature,
we have 59 versus 58 from of KNN and if
60 of Simple Tree now we are adding more
information.
These tree models are definitely
performing better than KNN.
There is a 6% gap between the random
forest and KNN.
And As for the features from random
forest getting more and more is making
more sense to my leg the brand.
Those are really important features that
you consider when you buy a car,
how you make the decisions,
or especially use a car.
Let's see the gradient boost.
A gradient boost.
We have the accuracy,
we have the error rate lower than 51st
time.
As you can see,
now we are moving from 5850 nineish to 48
compared to Kan,
that's a 10% better about 10%.
From grading boost.
Let's try extra boost.
Now is 55, so you're whenever I do this,
I feel like I'm. I'm. I'm.
I'm seeing evolution, right?
So then we went from 80 to 458.
We brand new information,
just another sixcolumn information.
We reduce its error rate from a 58 to
this 45.
To this 45 already OK.
Now let's use all features.
So all features are the male leg.
Encoded.
Features and extracted features.
OK so I have this prepaid.
So I'm just going to use this.
I have all those features that I will be
using them.
In the following modelling.
OK,
I'm still gonna record all the error
rates.
OK.
Run this as you can see,
we have 58 columns to use.
I'm going to deal with those noun values.
Let's start trying linear regression.
See,
even linear regression is getting better,
so we have 62% of errors from linear
regression.
We have a good starting point even for
the linear regression it dropped.
The error rate reduced from 80.
To 62.
So that means the information we brought,
the additional information we brought to
this model definitely making sense.
And then you're adding value to this
model.
Let's try knn.
Is still similar 58.
So then the information for CNN didn't
provide a lot of additional value.
So linear regression dropped error rate,
right?
So linear regression dropped from 80 to
62.
But even if we bring new information to
KNN, it didn't drop, it's still 58.
Let's see the simple tree.
Boom, you can see.
This this red region is getting spread
out.
It's only 4047 error right now.
So for simple tree it just we just reduce
error rate from 60 to 55 and to 47.
As you can imagine from the trend we will
have a really good error rate or really
bad,
really small error rate for extra boost.
So we are getting there.
Let's try and run them forest.
And now we are below.
We are below 40.
For random forest we have only 39,
so it was 52, now 39.
Let's see the gradient boost.
So as you can see,
we have all the points spread out.
We have 38.
So the firm greeting boost we are pushing.
To 38. Now remember we started with 80.
Now is 38.
Let's do extra boost.
OK,
Estr boost we have the error rate below
35 S 34.94.
So let's see. We went from 80.
And then we add the first group of
information.
We believe in the drive value and it did
or they did.
So we reduced error rate by half.
So we move from 80 to 45,
almost five or half.
Now we bring those extracted features,
those extracted information from the from
from the original information that we had.
We reduce.
We reduce the error rate from 45 to 35.
The question being OK number number one
is definitely we can extract more
information and combine some information
and they're going to make more sense in
predicting the used car price.
There's definitely a huge room for
improvement in there and and can we do
another things because we just use some
out of box parameters here, right?
So the I just say in random 10 I didn't
change anything.
There's the one step called tuning that
you can do this grade search.
So I'm setting up OK.
So there's some parameters I can try for
actually boost,
so I will ask the model to run through
all the combinations of those different
parameter,
a different set of parameters so that I
can select the best.
Set of parameters definitely based upon
whatever values you provide up to the
model, right?
So now I can use the Basel best model to
predict.
So how good my how good my prediction
will be?
I just provide those three values for
North estimators.
I just provide those values for the DAP.
I provide those three values for for
learning rate and and for for different
parameters.
So you gonna run a while,
but nothing worth seeing.
So it will run all 4-5 hundred 45140 fits,
meaning for every combination of those
values you provided in this prime grade,
you're going to run a model training and
validation again.
So it's it's actually using these.
Five fold cross validation in in this
great search function.
So just give it some time and and you can
see.
So you can see it.
So here is the best hyperparameter file
combination.
So then this based upon all the model
interest run through.
This is best parameter you should use and
then if you revolution reduce the map to
32%.
So.
This this entire process is usually how a
data scientist will solve your problem.
Solve the business problem right so that
we always go with limited information and
build a naive model where the naive model
is really could be a linear regression
versus the OR two to the price we build
that model.
We'll start really bad results.
80 percent, 80% error.
That means we have 20% accuracy.
We go from 20% accuracy.
We try different models that help us to
change that 20% accuracy to 40% accuracy
and then we we we we convert those
characteristic information into into
numbers.
We encoded them so then we have more
information that we can use and then we
move from.
There's a 40% accuracy to this 55%
accuracy where it just and this is 45%
error rate and it's that's 55% accuracy.
So we move from 40 to 55.
And then we just try our best.
Not. Not even best, right?
We just extract some information from
here, right?
So then that's what we did.
And then we boost accuracy from 55 to
hear about 70.
So entire process just run so many
different models and track information.
We move from 20% accuracy to 70% accuracy.
And you can do more fine tuning.
You can do more this information,
more review and and and combining those
flags and eventually you can you can move
this 70% accuracy to hopefully somewhere
between 70 and 75 that you can definitely
achieve.
Through these fine tuning and through
this in terms of information combination
in terms of grade search,
you can definitely do that,
but eventually the model you will have.
Is is pretty good.
This is the model.
This is the model we gonna build to
predict your used car price.
And this is entire test uh data set,
not train.
So as you can see the the red curve,
the red Dot's gonna spread across the
entire plane where you see the blue blue
dots.
So those are really good results.
In addition to those those tweaks,
you can you can improve that model
accuracy. What you can do.
In terms of model.
So those are the models that we have
learned in this class.
We covered a little regression.
We covered kn.
We covered the tree models or different
tree models and and and after spring
break we will talk about in the newer
network.
So this is another model we can try and
you will definitely improve the accuracy
from these 32.
Well some from these 70 to 75.
Another thing is I am just extract
information the keywords from those key
columns you know in the large language
model you have a different way of
encoding.
That is you can bring the meaning of
those words into consideration for
example.
A good example will be the engine is
something that you will not want to model.
So the large ranker model kind of
encoding,
we'll consider that in a large angle
model kind of encoding we'll consider
like this Ant and automated.
So in in large on your model kind of
encoding you consider those are similar
vectors,
so you wouldn't have to have those as a
different columns.
So they're going to do this meaning
meaningful conference combination for you.
So that's part of large rank model we can
use in a in a in a traditional machine
learning.
But you know those those different new
models and new information or new ways of
combining information,
retracting information,
we will definitely build on top of these
results and then you gonna move this from
70 to 75 or 80 at a maximum that's going
to be a really.
Good model for business to queue the take
away from this analysis is we are we just
go through this process to review all the
models we have learned and and use those
models in a regression problem and we can
see that more information you provide the
model.
The more accuracy result you,
you will enjoy.
And and we definitely have seen that
human beings are pushing the models from
linear regression to actually boost which
is the like published to to public in in
the year of 2016.
So you can see how the history move from
here to here.
And also another take away is you always
need to build.
A first MVP, the first ever iteration,
zero. You start from a very poor result.
You prove actually even for that result
you have a positive accuracy.
You know what?
That's not bad.
So then you move from there and get more
information.
You find more information from your
business, from your data, and that you,
you you employ more advanced model.
That's the way how you move from 80%
error to through 30% error. OK,
I mean I love doing this because this is
always like a reminder of my job.
Every single day is removing from trash
accuracy to really good accuracy.
Just going through this kind of.
Process this just give you one taste of
you know your analysis,
your data scientist was doing every
single day.
They move from a long journey to improve
the accuracy for you, for your business.
I hope you guys gonna do in a similar
work,
but you know when you're doing this kind
of modeling work,
start low start working some people to
grab more information,
start trying to use some more advanced
model.
So those are the three success recipe for
you.
OK.
Any questions?
No questions. OK,
I'll upload this this juvenile notebook
to D2L today.
So then you guys can, you know,
having some fun writing those models?
I mean then when I coded this,
I'm definitely happy.
Fun a lot of fun. You know,
this is sort of like seeing seeing a
history book, reading a history book of,
you know, human beings.
It's it's. It's a lot of fun.
You see how the model move from here to
there.
It's it's a lot of.
It's a fun time.
Yep, all right.
So if no questions,
let's take a 15 minute break.
We come back.
6:55 we have two more models to cover.
One is time series, another one is SVM.
Those are not quite difficult models.
Definitely less difficult than the tree
models.
Quite straightforward,
a lot of models you may have used every
single day already.
So definitely easy models to cover.
And then we cover those.
We take a break and we celebrate the
spring break,
we come back with a new network.
All right. I will see you guys.
At 6:55.
Alright, welcome back.
Let's see.
Not this one here.
Hi, I'm serious, mother.
Sign in for yes. Here we go.
Right.
OK, you guys see this slide.
Yep.
Perfect time series.
I'm pretty sure that you guys are using
time series model all the time.
The reason is at least you know how to
visualize because all the stock price
data is there all time series, right?
So then you track your your company's
stock price.
You track different companies stock price.
You track SP500.
Those are time series.
You track the interest rate you have.
You track the exchange rate.
You have all different economic
indicators.
There's all different time series,
so it is.
It is #1 super widely used.
Away to to to present data, right?
So then the reason why people love Time
series is, you know,
people can derive a lot of insight.
By comparing the current.
Yu versus the historical Yu.
They can definitely.
They want to see the trend, right?
So then whether or not this uprising
trend or is it downward?
From the data, right?
So then the trend is super important in
in stock price analysis, right?
So then and also people want to see is
there any seasonality?
If you do see some seasonality from from
the stock price data and then you can
definitely leverage that information to
make some.
Good value, good good result,
good net com.
But I do not think there is any
seasonality in any stock data because if
they were war,
you know people gonna take advantage of
that and that that seasonality gonna be
used as a arbitrage right.
So then,
so I don't think there's any seasonality.
And then Significantity is sort of like
irregular cycles, right?
So then.
I don't know if any data has that or
sometimes that you know if you believe if
you check meta U.S. stock price.
It declined to a really low value and
then after that it just sort of a pop up
just going high.
I don't think that has nothing to do with
you know, business cycles or so,
but some people may believe in that is
really up to what what really.
Kind of theory you believe in and and
definitely there are some noise,
you know you.
Some people believe you know you can or
you can extract those information from,
for example, stock price data.
And then some people want to use time
series model to predict stock price and
those are they are using those kind of
models to optimize their portfolios.
And for example,
like there is a three factor model that's
tactically time series model.
What I really talking about time series
model is they want to decompose the time
series signal into transitionally any
wise.
I.
I don't think that will work.
But you know,
people are doing it all the time.
And and there,
there's definitely some traditional time
series models, for example.
I'm going to tell you I'm going to show
you guys.
But.
My understanding is you can definitely
apply those time series model.
The the stock price data, or SP500?
I don't think the accuracy really is is
really good.
When I was doing my PhD,
I'm doing the stochastic differential
equations, right? So then.
We believe a lot of people believe in,
you know,
the stock price and random walk or some
people believe in that.
It's it's a wine is add to some some
signal.
So some stochastic differential equation
can explain the stock prices.
That's what people believe.
I I don't think anyone can predict that
and any model like time series model is
really hard to predict.
That's so in order to have,
like really good time suit stop price
prediction.
So you you may want to use a lot of lot
of information just one time series model.
I I doubt it.
But you can still use time series model.
Apply those model.
For example your inventory,
inventory model optimization applications.
Right. So then usually.
For for a lot of companies,
especially for grocery companies.
Their sales are pretty.
Much easier to predict. For example,
like you, you want this,
you want to predict.
Products, for example banana.
You want to predict the banana sales.
You want to predict that Turkey sales and
those kind of things.
Now they have a high seasonality around
uh in the data.
So then the time series model are really
really good.
Uh on those data, right?
So then, so then you can actually.
View the time series model to predict.
A local store, for example,
target stores sales, right?
So then you can predict next next week
you can predict the next month.
So you can actually help the company to
manage their inventory levels and then
they don't have to keep so much inventory.
For example, it's too much.
So many so many bananas in in in the
inventory,
but then some banana will eventually go
bad.
So those are the business loss.
I don't think time series model can be
applied to on the stock price data,
but time series model can really can be
really good model on the inventory
management.
Or inventory optimization time series
model is really good,
but just for this class I'm using the the
finance data as an example to show you
guys.
How to apply this time series model?
So for example,
I plot this chart so SP500 close price is
definitely a time series and if you go
from you know a year or two 1928 and then
you can actually go from there to.
2025 So this how this time series SPR 500
went?
So it was pretty impressive.
Right.
So then you can actually try to decompose
the trend?
The cyclicality and then noise from this
time series data,
usually people just care about you know
the trend and seasonality and then this
one not necessarily.
Usually people can can can use different.
In different input variable independent
variables explain this.
For trend and there are some established
method that you can apply onto the the
the signal.
You can see that the trend is really
whether or not the data is moving to One
Direction,
say uprising trend or low or downwarding
trend.
So then people can make decision whether.
Or not.
They they should enter the game,
start buying some stocks.
The seasonality.
Some people believe in you can go up and
down.
Star Prize is like what I said.
I don't believe in seasonality, but.
True seasonality could be you know for
for for sales of banana.
You know usually you have a pretty high a
pretty spikes of sales during the weekend
just because you know people are doing
grocery shopping.
And also for Turkey, you know,
people just buy Turkey during, you know,
weeks before Thanksgiving.
So strong seasonality can be found in
those data.
And definitely whatever model you're
using,
you still gonna have the noise and then
the noise is not a bad thing.
By analyzing the noise,
you can see if you're missing some key
information.
You know,
a lot of the model we are doing is is is
actually minimize the noise,
but we cannot. If you do see a model now,
you don't have any noise that means you
you either use some future information.
I shouldn't shouldn't be using or #2 is.
Just simply something wrong in the model.
Noise. You cannot eliminate noise.
And then what? We can learn more.
How different models were developed is
actually by analyzing noise.
Noise is a good thing.
By analyzing the noise,
you can find a lot of insight and then to
improve your model,
let me just show you the no SP500 data,
right? So then.
This is the original time series from for
SP500 from 1990 to now.
Like to the moment I run this model.
So yeah,
so next you can see it's up rising trend,
definitely some turbulence around 2000
and around 2008 and then and then because
of COVID definitely right.
So then our trend is like this
seasonality.
The reason I I I'm highlighting this
piece is since.
I will say 2016,
but definitely highlighted during the
COVID is that the the SP500 is getting
less and less predictable as you can see,
this is a residual.
Basically, noise is getting really,
really big.
It's really,
really significant and I cannot ignore
and also the seasonality is really
getting more and more high frequency.
What I say.
And then before this COVID period,
it's sort of some seasonality and sort of
some strong noise as you can see around
2008 a Finan.
Crisis.
So that's why it's that you know the
noise is really good indicator to show
you some key information we definitely
missed.
And then what we can see is we missed a a
timing information around 2008 and then
we need to tell the model that is because
of financial crisis.
And here is the information that we
definitely missed is a lot right.
So we have COVID.
We do have a QE and then we do have a
supply chain issue.
And also since like 2025,
we going forward where we may have a lot
of tariff issue to come in here from a
general trend perspective by analyzing
for SP500 what we can see is uh the
variation is getting much bigger is
getting bigger and.
Bigger and then a lot of umm.
Uh,
nuisance cannot be explained like this.
It's just like highest level in history.
You know, it's just making the point.
You know it's getting more and more or
less and less unpredictable and going
future like 2025,
we're gonna have a lot of terrorists are
gonna have a lot of different decisions
made by the government.
So then I will.
I will predict that this kind of
turbulence is kind of up or down
whereation gonna be getting bigger and
bigger so then.
Maybe people are right.
So then you keeping cache,
not investing in the stock market?
But this is the thing.
That is what the data is suggesting.
The stationary.
This we we assume that sometimes there
should be.
Stationary is this stationary?
Is saying that some patterns.
Mean variation or auto correlations is is
is repeating over time.
So what does it mean?
Meaning,
like I will say the data will come back
to the mean.
And then the current data should have
some correlation with the data that
happen in history.
So then what?
What does that mean? So then if if,
if if my yesterday stop price right?
Went high.
So then should should it affect my
current day stock price?
Should it go high higher level as well?
So then people believe that, you know,
if the stationary time series,
you would have those properties.
I checked the SP500 as expected is non
stationary. So basically telling U.S.
history won't repeat at least won't
repeat for SP500.
But you know this is only using the time
series only using the finance finance
data as example, right?
So you're predicting grocery inventory
you're predicting?
Different works and then you know like
could be stationary and then just this
one is we are not going to details of
what stationary time series will be.
And then what's the mathematical
definition of those?
Just keep in mind a lot of a lot of time
series models assume that time series
should be stationary.
Arguably that's a strong assumption.
A lot of times, series or not.
So then there are some ways that you can
convert a non stationary times series
into stationary time series.
One way to do that is to do differencing.
What is differencing?
The differencing is one way to average
out the different up and downs.
So you can do today minus yesterday so
that you can have that kind of a
different thing.
We can have a moving average.
Those kind of my third.
You can actually make.
Time is more and more stationary,
but you you will.
By doing so you will lose a lot of
information.
You can do defunding as well,
but after you defunding you may have like
just basically up and down.
Random walk.
I don't like the idea of a different
thing.
I don't like the the idea of moving
averaging those those time series.
I will say if you do see after running
whatever model you do,
see your your your errors right,
your residuals.
There is a huge residuals.
You really need to go go back to the
business,
go back to whoever providing the data and
ask the person why.
Here's a spike that is so strange,
and why we've seen.
This kind of dip every,
let's say three months or every two weeks,
there must be some reason behind seen
that you do see those times there is not
stationary.
You do see there are some spikes deeps
that cannot be explained.
That is because you do not have those
information to explain this.
It has nothing wrong it it already
happens.
Something must cause those kind of
phenomena.
So then you need to find a reason not to
modify the timing series and modify your
data.
Just fill in the model.
I don't think it's the right thing to do.
With that being said,
I never asked my whoever reported me or I
don't recommend doing this.
The different saying,
like those kind of work umm for my client?
Umm. Say target. Say whoever. Umm.
But with that being said a lot of other
information could be meaningful to use
like D training or or different thing.
For example your heartbeat right?
So I I was in.
A project right to develop.
A smart camera.
So it's really taking your your face
taking 30/20/20 second of your your your
your face video and then you gonna
analyze each picture of that video, right?
So then and then definitely there are
some lights you know on your face and
then making them shadows here and shadows
there.
And then you see the strength of the the,
the,
the color reflected by your face is up
and down so.
There may be some trend over there.
So then you do want to do this.
Do trending.
You do want to do this differencing to
get rid of those.
Umm outside light signal out of your your
your skin signal and then by using your
skin signal you you analyze this code and
call seasonality of that time series.
That can tell you your your heartbeat
rate.
But that has nothing to do with finance.
So then if you're doing the business data,
you.
Before you do this differencing,
detrending.
Method ask yourself whether or not you're
losing significant information because by
doing so you are going to lose
significant information. For that,
you know heartbeat rate analysis.
I'm losing the delight,
which I I'm I want to.
I want to get rid of the light signal
from from my time series.
So then do it with caution.
I'll say and different things basically
why.
How you doing differencing?
I don't like this,
but just providing you there,
there is a way you can make a non
stationary times into stationary.
Just be careful.
Right.
And how to correlation auto correlation
is basically saying that?
Whether or not his target data will
affect.
Days today's data so whether or not do
you believe whether or not a week ago
stop price will affect.
My stock price today meaning.
Knowing the fact that the stock raised
one week ago would not information affect
my current day stock will not go up on
this very day.
So then some people believe that there is
autocorrelation.
Mean for a lot of data from heartbeat
data.
Yes,
definitely there is a auto correlation,
but just for a stock price data per say,
I don't believe it's it.
Like what I said.
It's it could be arbitrage that you can
definitely utilize it and make some extra
money if you notice notice there's some
other people also notice this.
So then that's basically definition of
arbitrage and then people leverage take
advantage of that.
So then this out will be gone.
So that's why I don't believe in
autocorrelation in finance data,
especially in in in stock price data.
But if you.
If you're focusing on one simple company,
right?
So then you want to analyze not companies
10K or 10Q,
and then you're plotting a time series
based upon 10K10Q data. Their net income,
right? So that their cogs,
their sgna data.
I cannot believe that there will be
autocorrelation in that time series.
It's really case by case and then you
have to think through the reason why you
believe there is this automation and why
don't you believe there's a
autocorrelation.
So the reasoning is the key here, right?
And then you like what I said.
I'm going to show in here.
So SP500 auto correlation?
So you know you, you, you, you see this.
And they're so basically I'm showing you.
A different cycle, right?
So the zero is my current data versus my
current data.
So then definitely you have 100%
correlation, but whatever,
if I shift the date by one,
I'm comparing my current data,
my current date's growth versus my
yesterday's stock or SP500 behavior.
Is there any positive or negative or
strong autocorrelation?
As you can see from the data today,
whether or not my stock go up versus
yesterday,
whether or not that stock go up.
So there is a minor super tiny.
The minus correlation.
And then I just went this cycle from zero
to 50.
I I give you the autocorrelation of those
time series.
What I can say is the only strong code
and code strong information I can tell is.
It seems that there is positive
correlation.
Of the SP500 price versus.
Nine days ago, SP500 price and seven.
So then those are the strongest.
Or two strongest positive correlation I
have ever seen from 1 to 50 days lag.
And those are definitely for a 80 day lag.
I have a pretty strong negative
correlation.
How strong is it?
Less than 20%.
I don't think those are strong.
I hope not.
A lot of people are going to use this
information to design any strategy
because I don't think this is really
meaningful information.
But this provides you a way to see to
check the other correlation, right?
So then to you know,
I'll show you the code how I did it.
You can do that with your data with your
company data.
If you focus on corporate finance that
you're doing, you're focusing one company.
Autocorrelation could be strong
information that you wanna have stock
price investment not at all.
Any questions so far?
OK.
Good.
So then I'm gonna show you different this
this is going through a history, right?
So then.
There's other regressor autoregressive
model.
So what does this model mean?
It's meaning like I can use my
yesterday's information to predict my
today's information.
For example,
I can use my yesterday's stock price,
star price,
start price and end the price or close
price to predict my today's.
Close price for example.
People believe in that.
So that's basically this formula is
telling you.
The output depends on its own previous
values.
If if your signal, for example,
you're analyzing a company's sgna you're
analyzing companies.
Receivables right, account receivables,
if you do see there is a strong
AutoNation say if t -,
1 yesterday's or or last month or last
quarter's account receivable has a really
strong correlation with the current
account receivables. Yes,
this model will help you to understand
that company's.
Business cycle it could be a really good
insight for stock price as we don't see
any auto correlation.
The prediction using this model will be
really, really bad.
How bad?
How bad is this?
Is like this bad.
I don't think anyone should be using this,
I'm really.
I'm cutting off right my training model
for SP500 using any data before 2024
September.
I'm asking this model. OK,
let me to train AR model to
autoregressive model and then let me just
predict the stock price going forward.
Mean you you can see this mean absolute
percentage errors as low as 2%, no?
Here is a huge gap when SP500 is this
high.
I'm putting in this low so it is not
usable for any portfolio optimization.
OK so so it's not performing great,
it is as expected.
This this moving average model is even
worse in my opinion,
because it just basically assumed that.
It just basically assumed that the
predict by the way #1 it's moving average
model so then don't confuse this one with
a concept called moving average.
This moving average MA model has nothing
to do with the stat concept of moving
average which is basically calculating
the average.
This moving average is saying that, hey,
I believe the historical forecast errors
has something to do with my future price.
So then the regressors are the predicting
with errors.
The part I can say it makes some sense is
if you have some information that got.
Not explained in history.
So then basically you are using those
errors as a proxy of unexplained
information in history.
So for finance, it's even worse than that.
So I train the model using the same data.
Here is a prediction, and here's actual.
I don't think this is useful.
OK.
And the more important thing is that this
ARIMA model.
This ARIMA model I hope you have heard
this model because this ARIMA model is
really Arkansas autoregressive
differencing and the moving average.
This model is a combination of Arkansas
model and a moving average model.
So that's one one point that you don't
want to even try the auto regressive
model and machine learning model because
this model this ARIMA model is dominating
those two models.
So this model is basically a combination
of those two models and it's getting more
and more powerful because it has more
regressors to in your model.
In this agreement model.
So this is a really very widely used
model.
And so you just need to know.
You just need to know some information
about autoregressive auto correlation and
use that information to find a proper PDQ
in this formula.
The algorithm gonna find that for you.
But for stock price,
it just feeds single line.
If you zoom in you can see this is not a
single line,
but if you zoom out like this,
it looks like a single line.
Is it's not useful either.
Umm, another one is signal a remote model?
So this model is dominating ARIMA.
So you can see from the Times series
model the future model,
more reason models are dominating.
Previous models,
so the seasonal is just basically a rima
model plus a seasonal piece so that you
can model automatically the seasonality.
Again apply to SP500.
Not great. OK.
So then,
so those are the family of Arima models.
So if I may make a suggestion.
So although I'm saying that those models
are now so great with the SP500 data,
but those are still good models that you
can use for other purposes.
Another use cases say in inventory
optimization, if you're in,
if you're use case in the inventory
optimization.
Almost all companies are using a rima
model.
At least to use it as a benchmark,
it's really good model on that in that
area and and in that for for that use
case.
And and if you want to use for example
focus on one single company's performance
in history,
a rima model will be your starting point
if that. If that history is a time series,
that's definitely going to be your
starting point.
Just don't use this model on stock price.
In this model is not good.
OK.
So then another big family of a time
series model is exponential smoothing
model.
So it's also quite easy.
So is it consider we can fit in
exponential, exponential linear model,
so then so then you can smooth the signal
a bit.
That's how you you have this ETS model.
I'll I'll have.
I think Devi has some chart I'm gonna
show you.
Umm,
so eventually the the the exponential
smoothing model gonna give you are some
smoothed trend information.
It will tell you,
based upon history whether.
Your time series will go training up or
training down.
That's pretty much how you use
exponential smoothing model.
In real life, how we, you know,
a data scientist will use an exponential
smoothing.
Is to really use this exponential
smoothing to create some benchmark
predictions in the future and use those
benchmark predictions as a feature to
help more advanced machine learning model
to learn, at least from one perspective,
how the future forecast will look like.
So you can actually use it.
As a benchmark for more often that we are
just using it to create features.
So for example like I want to use this I
I can use this exponential smoothing and
then create my prediction of future and
then for a newer network model I can use
it and to predict the future and then you
can also build a tree model and then.
Use this as a as a input for the tree
model to predict your future.
Let's say your future inventory and your
future account receivables.
That's 100% doable and then and then
going to provide some really positive
value,
but just rely on this model and give you
high accurate result.
That's sometimes. It's really,
really tricky.
OK.
So usually like people using those as as
as features.
And also there is another thing.
So causal analysis in time series what?
What causal analysis really means is that.
For example.
In in the inventory optimization problem,
some people believe that price is A1
causal variable of high demand.
You know,
if you guys to come micro economy,
you know that if you know if the price
elasticity.
Is is inactive mean right?
So then it that means if I raise my price
and then my my my unit sales will.
Highly likely go down right so that if I
if I reduce my price,
my unit sales number of products I sold
will go up.
So then that's that's that's that gives
us a negative price elasticity.
So then now means the unit cells go up or
go down a number of products that you can
sell has.
The reliance has a a dependency on the
price because the price up and down
caused the up and down of the unit cells.
A number of unit you.
Can sell.
So then that price is a causal factor.
For the unit sales, right?
So then you whenever you predict for
example like.
Video games as an example, right?
So then if you do see a discount during
Thanksgiving,
a lot of people may buy the video games
or or or console units.
Surprise is playing a role.
So then you definitely want to have the
price as an information in your model.
So they're definitely going to drive more
accurate predictions, right?
One question.
Do you guys think that price is a causal
factor for revenue?
Like the the price you sell something at.
Is that a causal factor?
For how much revenue you get?
Yes.
So for example like whether you changed
our price up or down,
how does it affect your revenue?
Yeah, definitely a causal factor.
OK.
So let me ask you a quick question.
So if you if you raise your price, Matt,
if you raise your price.
Does it drive your revenue higher or
lower?
Depends how much you raise your price.
Sure. Why? Why?
Why does it depend on how much you raise
your price?
'Cause, if you raise it a little,
you might make more money.
If it doesn't drive off sales.
But if you raise it too much,
people might stop buying it.
Yes, exactly.
So then if you raise your price too much,
you have your number of products getting
much lower than the price you raise
because the revenue is priced.
Multiply the number of unit of your
product so you can sell.
So then, if price rises, for example 25%.
But you have 30% lower unit sales,
so that you eventually gonna end up with
a negative negative growth of umm revenue
which is not optimal, right?
But right.
Similarly,
if you reduce the price too much,
let's say I reduce the price by 25%.
But my price elasticity is not that
significant.
It's less than.
Well, it's bigger than -1.
So then I can now raise as high as 25%
units sales or more.
I only raise 20% units sales.
Higher so then I have a -, 25 -,
25% from my price.
I have only +20% from my uni sales.
I end up with -5% of revenue,
which means I'm losing money in theory.
So it's really really tricky to say that
price may cause the revenue changes,
but sometimes it may not.
So then that's very important point I
want to make is if your manager,
the first one asks you guys to predict
for example,
my sales my my financial stability,
you know you wanna know the money that
you can earn from your clients, your,
your customers your, your, your.
Your customer companies or individuals?
First thing is you need to make sure that
you understand there is a direct 100%
causal.
Causal factor between price and unit
sales 100% one go down,
the another one should go up.
Assuming we're not,
we're assuming we're not selling those
luxury bags, right?
So then those guys,
they have positive price elasticity,
meaning you raise your price more,
you have more sales,
which is kind of bizarre and not a
regular product.
We are selling usually assuming you know
the price of your products you're selling
or your company is selling.
Assume that the price less DC is negative,
meaning lower price will drive higher
unit sales.
Our higher price will drive lower unit
sales.
You should predict unit sales instead of
revenue.
You have the unit sales predicted based
upon.
Your assumed discount or lower price or
higher price you're gonna offer to the
customers, the product,
the multiplication gonna give you revenue
anyways.
And that is a more accurate way to
predict the future,
then just use the price to predict the
future revenue directly.
But now it's more scientifically.
Solid.
Approach.
So just keep in mind some differences
that you need to know the the causality,
causality.
Factor between 2 signals.
It may not be that obvious,
and sometimes it can be really confusing.
And also one one key point I wanna make
is that the correlation does not imply
causation.
What does that mean?
You may have some signal.
Have a really positive correlation you
believe?
That is driving your business.
That could be just a coincidence.
Unless you you have to go into.
You know the qualitative part of that
information to run through what does.
What does that information even mean?
So you need to prove that that is a
causal variable.
There is a causation.
So then you can use that information,
but sometimes it's really,
really hard I understand.
So that is why you will want always to
use out of sample test.
At least to prove.
This correlation does have some causality
or causation that you can try to use that
the other task out of sample task can
provide you some quantifiable evidence of
that causation relationship.
And and always do that and do your due
diligence from the meaning the definition
perspective and and use auto sample to
quantify that causality relationship.
Uh. Causation relationship.
That's the two umm advices.
I'll definitely give it to you.
Because this kind of correlation.
Umm.
Correlation and causation kind of
confusion.
Uh really happen in your in my real life.
Uh. Examples.
That definitely caused a lot of
overfeeding problems that caused the
business significant amount of money to
eventually get rid of underdress those
issues, OK.
So this is going to a key point.
Correlation in causation.
This is something that you can help
business to distinguish.
One package I will highly recommend is
the profit.
It is from. It's from oh.
Why do I just put it in the process?
So these are from MADA.
So this is a really established package
that you can use.
You can use this package for your daily
data. You can use it for weekly data,
for monthly data.
And and for the data was different
frequency and you this this this the man
of profit can handle different patterns,
different seasonality automatically.
This is a really,
really powerful package that you want to
use in your real life.
If after this class you forgot those all
the Arima, you don't lose anything.
Just if you know how to use meta Prophet.
A lot of companies are actually using it
and they're really, really powerful.
And then you can save the money to
purchase some, you know,
software and then you can just doing this
is open source and then is 100% free.
And so very, very powerful.
And the matter is using this software for
their own prediction.
So and also even,
even Amazon introduced their own.
Their own match time series packages
their their their benchmarking the uh,
the Meta Prophet.
So this is really establish a mature uh
time series uh module you can use.
So it has a lot of.
Built in seasonality components,
holiday components and you can even
define your changepoint.
For for the new data,
scientists join my team.
I literally asked them to read these meta
prophets user manual.
So then they got used to it.
So this is really go to model that you
want to do. You want to use.
So let me just show you one thing right.
So then, so when you train a model,
the model gonna tell you the trend and
the gonna tell you how different features
they're gonna automatically build in.
Some features for you.
How those features gonna vary?
How those features gonna affect your
forecast from the daily and yearly trend?
Perspective.
And then you can actually try to use that
to predict SP500 from this data.
I see this much better than the ARIMA.
But still I don't recommend using anytime
series model to predict a stop price
because I don't think that'll work.
But these in case.
You want to do that in case you do have
some information in case some days you do
find some.
Information that driving some specific
company's stock price.
I'm not saying that I I don't recommend
you to predict the general stock price
without knowing any information.
You just say, hey,
I have a machine learning model.
I just wanna know the stock price.
You won't.
But if you if you're doing some research
on one specific company or or set of
companies you know a lot of information,
you can extract a lot of information that
driving their stock price,
let's say in the ideal world, right.
So then from an API you can extract from
the latest the greatest news that in the
world you can.
You can do the sentiment analysis of
those news coming here and then you can
convert those news in real time into the
data.
That you can put into a a time series
model or whatever model,
and you can you can make sense of those
information to drive stock price up and
down.
If that happens then you can actually
predict.
That company's stock price with a really
high accuracy.
I.
I'm confident on that,
but for now that will require a lot of
work.
I don't think that will happen in a short
time and then so it's hard,
but maybe some high frequency trading
firms, they're already using that so then.
So then so then that's that's a maybe one
example that the human human regular
investor cannot be those agencies because
they already have those information
behind seen their models could be really
accurate and those are their top secret
and then individual investor like you and
me cannot really.
Be that model.
So that's why.
Another reason you should purchase ETFs.
Yeah. So then they, you know,
there's a meta prophet gonna provide you
a lot of information for you to use.
Let me just show you how actually you're
gonna use that model.
I'm gonna start up.
Right.
So what you do is you from this stand
models stand model's gonna give you a lot
of.
It's a API gonna give you a lot of time
series models, right.
And then you have to install all these.
This profit you gonna you gonna download
it?
Download this package from Facebook and
then so you can you can import this
profit model right.
So then.
What I did is just as you use SP500 data.
Because the profit is quite big.
So then you gonna load quite a bit of
time.
Here we go.
So I just regenerate this curve.
Now I'm showing the class and I cut the
data for this one just from 2010.
Just make.
Just make the times is shorter.
I mean I can go back to 1920.
I'm just using these code space I have
only.
16 gigabytes of RAM.
There's one single model I cannot even
finish that,
so that's why I just cut the data.
Here this is the one that you can do STL
analysis where an STL stand for
seasonality.
T stand for.
Tran so STL analysis is really converting
this time series into trend,
seasonality and residuals.
And this is the chart I'm showing you,
but it's from 2010 to now. As you can see,
this is not the.
This is residual meaning noise is getting
to the highest magnitude in the history.
Right. So it's definitely the stock price.
If you zoom in getting.
More and more difficult to predict.
This one is to confirm that.
I the time series even I called from 2010
is still a nonstationary time series.
I did differencing.
This is after differencing I I don't like
it.
I don't know how to use it,
it just to me it just up and down random
walk and this one is to say, hey,
if there's any autocorrelation.
So only thing that you see as stand out
are those two points.
One is 9 days, another one is 7 days.
So, considering there,
there are only 5 business days now,
you can do trading.
So that means like is this one day short
of two weeks.
And and and and a slightly more than one
week week of our training days.
I I don't know why they have, you know,
this kind of standout positive
correlations.
But it definitely look somewhat
significant compared all the other point.
But still overall it's still very low
because here is a 25.
So I would say just only 10%,
but still higher than the others.
I I don't think there's a really
significant gonna drive us a different
result, but you guys can can can try.
Right. OK.
So this one is,
I'm just still a partition the data into
training task.
So this is kind of training task bleed
for time series.
You cannot do train training task lead.
The way that we did for the used cars
because for time series the timing,
the time plays a role, so you have to.
Split the time series into some data as a
whole in the in the history and some data
in as whole in the future,
so you wouldn't consider like 8020 roll
that you randomly select sometime in the
history in the future you don't.
You cannot do that.
You have to make sure that you train
based upon history data and to predict
whatever back.
Then consider as a future because sitting
the A A a good way to think about this is
sitting today.
You wouldn't see any data in the future
tomorrow.
So then you have to do is learning
anything happened through this very
second from history.
That's the only thing you can do.
So the same thing that you should do. Uh,
following the same logic to split the
data into a train and test whatever train
is your you're pretending standing at the
moment, standing at the date of September,
the first in 2024, or or or or August the.
31st, 2024. You know, at that night,
you know, all the history through.
August the 23rd, 21st.
You're predicting the stock price after
the date,
so you can you can use all the
information in in history and and not in
the future.
So that's,
that's one thing that's a different train
task bleed for time series model.
To all the other models, right?
And then you can just quickly train.
Auto regressive model like this,
so I'll skip those those different models,
because they're gonna take a super long
time to run.
So this is one like ETS model.
So then the profit model is like this.
So.
So you're gonna call the profit as a
function.
You gonna tell the model whether or not
you believe there is a daily seasonality
or weekly seasonality?
Uh,
you already seasonality and then whether
or not you allow the model to
automatically?
Determine any changepoint.
The change point in terms of training,
so you provide the data I have is a daily
data, right?
So then I believe I can just tell model
hey.
Let's assume there are some daily
seasonality.
Let's assume there's some weekly
seasonality,
yearly seasonality and then you define
this.
This this regressor and you train based
upon the train data and then you tell the
model your definition of future, right?
So the future is whatever in the past
data and then you say hey,
those are the dates in the future.
At this moment you're training this,
this model,
you tell the model what future means and
the model gonna predict future for you
and you can start comparing.
So this is a really bad and but you can
still see a lot of information and now
you're saying hey.
I know my prediction looks like this.
It's not so great.
And I providing some information to help
this machine learning to understand
what's going on.
So you can actually create some features,
right?
So then rolling features.
Rolling new features.
After doing that,
you can see these predictions get much
getting much better, right?
So then at least they have the same level
and the same up and down variation.
And then you can see how different
features is is driving the final results.
You have entire report automatically
coming from profit.
So that's why I believe this profit model,
if you get familiar with you, you can.
You have a ton of use case in your work.
Whenever you,
you have the time series model.
It's always your number one time series
goal to model.
That that is profit.
I know there are some current models that
using the LLM to do the time series
prediction.
In in my real real work,
we actually tested those models that
called you know,
either with either use AI in their names
and or a large language models in their
names,
and then they they redesign that kind of
algorithm to fit in this time series
modeling piece.
What I can say from what I have observed
is.
They're not.
They're not as good as a profit.
Profit is still the best.
And then those models are prone to errors
that you have to spend long time to debug.
So that's why you know,
I will highly recommend whenever you
you're seeing a time series prediction
model, just go to profit.
You're gonna save you a lot of time.
Gonna give you really good results, OK?
That's for time series. Any questions?
So let's take a look at the second model
we're gonna cover today.
Is is called support vector machines OK?
This model is quite powerful and honestly
is quite easy.
So that's why I I believe a 20 minute
could be good enough time to cover the
the the main concept of this model.
So it is a it is a supervised machine
learning model and then the idea is not
hard and going to give you some examples
so.
That we we will understand the idea,
not say this.
So then on this single line I have.
Some blue dots.
I have those orange circles,
so then I have three options A and B and
CI.
Wanna divide those blue circles away from
the orange circles?
So the question to you guys is.
Which way is the best way to separate the
blue circles and orange circles?
Is that A or B or C and what? What what?
Why do you believe that is the best way?
Any thought?
Maybe B 'cause. It's in the middle,
it's in the middle of the the two closest
Why the?
ones.
OK. Why? Why is B better?
It's like equidistant from the closest
blue and the closest orange.
Right. So then I think the idea is,
let's say, if I choose.
A right.
So that if I choose the way that means
line A is pretty close to the blue dots,
not the orange dots.
What? What? What?
Not what bad things could happen is you
train this data.
You bone.
You have another blue dots here.
You're basically saying that, OK.
I my model is over,
simply overemphasize those.
So then that's why I moved this super
close to this blue.
Or just overemphasize those orange.
So then so then I have some bias either
on the blue side or the orange side.
That's the same thing could happen if you
choose C so that however you choose B.
It will prevent those,
you know those surprise cases in your
test data from happening.
Even if you have some doubts here.
Let's say you have.
You have some here in your test data.
The B going to still cover it,
not A and if you have some.
Orange in your test data and B is still
going to cover it, not C.
So then B will maximize the opportunity
to cover those corner cases, right?
So then that's why you would like to
choose B / A or C, right? OK.
Let's see another example knowing that.
Knowing that you have a blue dot here and
here is the orange dot.
Which A or B or C still want to use to
separate the majority of the blue dots
and and orange dots.
Do you still choose B or you start
choosing for example A or C&Y is that?
Maybe C because they're weighted more
heavily in that direction now.
OK, OK.
Sounds good. If you move to C,
You're basically saying that, OK,
I am actually consider this as a as a as
a legit blue dot right?
So then,
so then in that case I should choose C
because I I am moving towards in this the
the issue of moving using C is obviously
in this conversation I don't.
Is there anyone gonna choose a?
That that's good, right?
So then the real competition is between
B&
C because you want to say whether or not
I consider this, this,
this blue dots as a legit.
The only thing I will say,
I will argue the still better case is B
is maybe in this training data that.
Is blue dot.
Is is anomaly.
So if that's the case.
You're moving toward more to those orange
dots,
and you're you're you're you're having
the issue with the test data,
that orange being somewhere between B&
C.
However,
B still block still maximize the way of
providing those surprise have from
happening.
Considering the majority of the blue dots.
So then I will still say the better case
is still B,
but the assumption of choosing B is I'm
the I'm designing an algorithm
considering if this is only one dot over
there, I will consider that anomaly.
But if you do see.
A significant portion of Blue Dolson here.
And then maybe you should choose C.
But just knowing this one dot here and
then six dot here.
I I sort of can consider this as a
nominee.
So I I can choose B.
So I'll say it depend on what you believe
in, but definitely not a.
So then you can choose B and you can
choose C choosing B.
You consider this is an nominee choosing
C.
You consider this is legit.
The issue of choosing C is if you know
it's another color.
Argument, right?
So if it does anomaly analysis,
you do have some orange dots here.
So then the C may cause some overfeeding.
OK.
So that's the reason.
So it doesn't matter if you have like 100
orange dots and six blue dots like
there's still two separate data sets.
You wanna keep them separate?
So say you have 100 blue orange dial.
You have only 6 blue dots here.
You still have one.
You still have one orange dot that is
close to this blue dot right.
You, you,
you eventually gonna have one or or two
if they are. They have the same position.
So so sorry.
You you have.
You.
You're saying there have 100 orange dots?
So what?
What's your suggestion?
Like the the size of or like the,
the distribution between the two doesn't
matter as long as you're picking the
center point.
Is that what you're saying?
It doesn't matter the distribution of the
orange, it does matter.
The distribution of the blue because it
is really sort of a blue entering the
territory of the orange,
not the orange going to the blue.
Well, you can argue it's only one here.
Yeah, I got. I get it. Yeah.
Right, right.
So that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So if you believe there's one orange in
blue,
so you you really need to put this down
here.
Yeah, you're right.
You're right.
If you do have 100 orange dots and then
you have more confidence to say this is
an this very orange and anomaly.
Not this very blue.
An anomaly from the blue group,
so that you should put a bar here.
Because because.
See if you have a majority of the orange
here.
You know, you never just, you know,
I'm just copy pasting, you know.
Here you sort of know that those are.
Where our resign.
This one is anomaly.
I have only 7 blue so that I will
consider those seven are legit.
So it's it's definitely more,
it's definitely.
More probable,
it's definitely higher probability to
consider.
This is not anomaly than this is an
anomaly.
This is because you have 99 here and only
one here,
so highly likely this is anomaly and this
is not so.
Then you make sure you may want to put
this bar here to block this and this
because you're you're blocking 99 of the
orange.
And then this is only one anomaly you're
ignoring that could maximize your, your,
your your benefit.
Does it make sense?
Makes sense?
OK, perfect.
So yeah,
so one is you one way of putting bars is
you do not.
You do not allow any part of the other
group entering your sort of territory.
For example, you are putting a bar here.
No one org.
You cannot enter blue territory in blue.
Hey, you cannot go across the bar.
It's sort of like a border of a two
countries.
And and this way is so hey, I have a bar,
the majority of you guys don't come here
and then we're not coming here either.
So then or the majority of blue don't
come here for example,
like I have a lot of I have say I have a
lot of blue here.
OK.
I have only one blue here.
OK,
I'm still maybe wanna put a bar here so
that I'm I have only some exceptions
coming into my territory and some from
your group coming here,
but still this bar can a block the
majority of those, that's also OK.
I'm achieving my goal.
I can sort of identify this part.
It's 99% of blue and this part is 99%
orange.
So the difference of that is,
is is a concept, OK.
And then also language is to to the 2D,
right?
So we know that.
And then let's say in the 2D we have.
The R,
the black dots and then we have white
dots.
There are three ways that we can sort of
set a bar or set a boundary of the black
dots and white dots.
Which one do you consider is a?
Is is a better,
better boundary of those two groups of
dots?
Is there anyone believe that H1 is a
better way to separate black dots and
white dots?
No.
No, of course, right,
because you did a separate.
H2 did right?
H2 did separate the black dots and white
dots.
So did.
So does H3.
The only difference is the the the black
dot closest to this H3 has distance
longer than.
Not black dot closer to H2.
So then this distance is longer than that.
Right.
Although it's kind of a symmetry between
this black and white dots,
either you know both H2 and NH3 type dot
symmetry.
Meaning the distance between this black
and this H2 is the same as this H2 to
this closest Y dot they have the same
distance and this black which is the
closest dot to H3,
has the same distance to this distance
between this H3 and.
This closest white dot.
So which one out of you know H2 and H3 do
you consider is the best way to separate
this black and and white?
Dot.
H3.
Is why is H3.
So if you look at the entire.
Distribution of the dots, it's the better.
Segmentation between the two of them.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Or you can say, hey,
let's say if if you were only focused on
this first quadrant, right.
So then we we are we're giving this ay
dots much bigger space than we are giving
these black dots, right?
We're giving black dots here.
Let me just add a shape.
We're giving this black dots here.
Shapes if we are using H2, right?
So then we are giving the Y dots all
those places, right?
So there's much more and much bigger
place we gave to to the black dots.
However,
if we use H3 entire up our black going up
the entire distraction are wide.
So we're sort of like evenly separate
entire first quadrant into half,
1/2 is black and 1/2 is white.
So then problem done.
So this is more fair separation between
this this group of black dots and this
group of white dots.
And and and the way of quantifying that
is the distance between between the
closest black dot to that boundary and
then the closest Y dot to that boundary.
So then this distance is definitely
bigger than this distance,
then that deep distance telling us, OK,
we need to find, you know,
maybe maximize of this distance and that
boundary gonna be the boundary that we
were looking for.
Similar situation.
Let's say if we have this black dot
coming in this direction,
this black dot the black dots come this
black dot coming into this territory.
Do we still want to keep H3?
Yeah.
OK.
I.
I don't like. Yeah,
I don't think there's a way you can
Because we're yeah.
separate it to get rid of the anomalies
there and still keep the rest.
Yeah.
Right. I agree with you.
So then you're sort of saying, hey,
before we have those two guys,
we sort of have like a soft boundary here
and we have a soft boundary here.
And then those are the buffers, right?
Nobody coming here and then boom,
this is my country line,
don't come across.
But you know,
in case there's someone that come across,
we have to say, OK, you know what?
That's that's the spy.
So actually.
Align those kind of lines.
If you do have you have X1 you have X2,
you have X3.
Just want to make the point.
This line is actually a plane like this.
It's sort of like how you visualize those
chart into a a 3D World.
So I I I think I'm not going to talk
about this. Let's.
So then that's why, you know,
even you have a OK.
Let me just copy those two points.
To here, so those two points here,
they're sort of like within our buffer
area, but still we can keep this as,
as as a country line so that we keep the
majority of this wide and black dots from
entering different territories.
So we can still keep like a.
Relative peace between this group and
this group and then H3 is sort of the
sort of a good boundary.
However,
if you do see a lot of either black or
white coming to this this this territory,
so then this after it should not hold
right?
So then the the SVM idea is coming from
this separate. It's super simple way of.
Separating dots.
What one thing I will say, you know,
why is SVM?
The support vector margin is so cool.
Is the following.
Let me show this.
So say you 2 have you know the two groups
are like this.
You know from a human being perspective,
you can definitely tell those are blue.
You can definitely tell those are cross
and and red.
You can separate those.
How you gonna divide this entire plane to
have the machine to separate this plane
by by identifying the difference between
the blue dots and the Red Cross.
By separating this plane.
So then you know from our linear logistic
regression what we can do is only set a
line to separate those which.
Doesn't work because a big portion of
this blue dots gonna come into this area
and big portion of this Red Cross is
gonna come to this blue area.
So then we misclassify.
A lot of those points,
just knowing they are not linear so that
you cannot really use a linear model on
top of the nonlinear data.
That's the point.
But with this SVM we start having a
separation like this.
So this is beautiful.
It's a close to a human's way of telling
the differences.
So now you're going to start having
curves that within the.
Within this this 2D dimensions and this
those curves are automatically learned by
those machine learning model.
So this is not your telling the model to
draw those curves, it draw itself.
So they can be have this curve,
it can be having this curve different
ways that the model Start learning how to
separate those blue and and and Red Cross
crosses.
So this is a really cool.
Idea of using SVM so that you can start
handling some really tricky data like
this that you were never able to handle
using any linear model in tree model.
You may be able to do that,
but in case you only have an X coordinate
and Y coordinates as.
An input the tree model cannot help you
either,
because there's too little information.
Remember from now the used car pricing
sample,
if we only provide the the modeling
information to predict the the the used
car price, the accuracy is terrible.
It's just simply terrible.
You need to provide more and more
information to that tree model.
It can learn it.
It can make the accuracy much,
much better,
but in here you want to separate those
two groups. You have only an X.
You have only ay.
You don't have all the other information
to the model to the machine.
Learning blue and red does not make any
difference.
You you can blind it.
It does not make any difference for them,
so that eventually they can learn to draw
a curve to separate them.
That's very impressive.
So from this SVM we started seeing.
This learning happening from our models
and then for neural network these kind of
thing going to happen quite quite often.
So that's why this model we are training
those model is getting closer and closer
to to human beings, OK.
So then let's preview for next time.
Enjoy next week to confirm you guys,
right?
I checked the calendar.
Next week is the spring break right?
Yeah.
OK.
Perfect. OK.
I'll say you guys enjoy your spring break.
I'll. I'll see you.
So no class next week.
I'll see you guys in two weeks.
Thanks professor.
Thanks Derek.
Yep. Thank you. See you later. Bye.
Thank you.
See you later.
Thank you.